Dear Mr. Graham Hancock

I'm a fascinated reader of your excellent books. Have read "The Fingerprints of the Gods" three times. 
Now am reading its edited edition.

Stumbled upon the following:

You quote Mr. Charles Hapgood:

"The general shape of the continent was startlingly like the outline of the continent on our modern maps.
The position of the South Pole nearly in the centre of the continent seemed about right."

It was said about the Oronteus Finaeus 1531 map.

Following the following logical chain I ended up in the dead end.

a) The continent (Antarctica) has the South Pole in the centre.
b) Earth's poles are covered with thick ice.
c) Therefore it could not be mapped.
d) It was mapped (we have a map)

It could be conciliated only:
1) It moved to the pole position "recently"
2) Our ancestors had the technology to see under ice.
3) It was done during epoch when the poles were free of ice.

(1) seems very unlikely. Poles' shift or crust displacement is the planet catastrophe,
too  much time have to pass for Humans to overcome it's consequences. No time, nor possibility 
to survey the Earth.
(2) Seems too fantastic to assume that our ancestors had the technology like ours.
(3) We never heard of that.

The only reasonable solution is that our unknown ancestors survived the catastrophe,
preserved the technology, knowledge, scientists, machines. If so where are they? Why they vanished?
If they survived the disastrous planet catastrophe , 
it would much easier for them to withstand the smaller cataclysms that followed?

They survived what seems the end of the world, they surveyed the Earth, 
they created many mountable buildings over the Earth,
initiated societies and then vanished?
It defy reason.

You would oblige me much if given a hint how to get over this puzzlement.

Yours sincerely,
Vladimir 

PS Please excuse me for taking the liberty of asking you a question directly. 
I understand that your schedule is quite tough and asking you directly I'm nothing but pushing my luck.
